Add CodeRefinery and outreach part (#12)
CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE: paper_teaching-learning-RSE.md

A wide range of software-related training materials and supporting organisations exist within the research software community and beyond. The Carpentries [The Carpentries] is a non-profit entity that supports a range of open source training materials and international communities of volunteer instructors and helpers who run courses around these materials. The community also maintains the materials which are based around three core syllabuses - Software Carpentry, Data Carpentry and Library Carpentry. The training materials within these areas have been developed, reviewed and enhanced over several years ensuring that they represent best practice in training on these topics. The core Carpentries lessons are targeted primarily at the beginner-level. However, the Carpentries Incubator [Carpentries Incubator] provides an environment for hosting additional community developed training modules covering a wide range of other topics that haven't gone through the peer review process of the core lessons. The material in the Incubator increasingly includes more intermediate-level training modules.

> [CodeRefinery] is a project currently funded by the Nordic e-Infrastructure and thus active priliminarily in the Nordics with the goal of teaching essential tools around research software development, that are usally skipped in academic education. CodeRefinery hosts a set of open source training materials including both beginner and intermediate-level material and organizes multiple highly interactive large scale workshops per year. Skills learned from the workshops and/or material allows researchers to produce more reproducible, open and efficient software and thus promoting FAIR research practices. One goal of the project is to evolve into a community project that seamlessly integrates with other intitaives. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CodeRefinery] is a project currently funded by the Nordic e-Infrastructure and thus active primarily in the Nordics with the goal of teaching essential tools around research software development, that are usually skipped in academic education. CodeRefinery hosts a set of open source training materials including both beginner and intermediate level material and organizes multiple highly interactive large scale workshops per year. Skills learned from the workshops and/or materials allows researchers to produce more reproducible, open and efficient software and thus promotes FAIR research practices. One goal of the project is to evolve into a community project that seamlessly integrates with other intitatives. 
```

FIXME: I think it would be nice if we could move each of these optional competencies to a different specialization.
- Managing/Updating/Refurbishing legacy software

### How do we reach people in different stages of their careers?

> Many current RSEs have found their way to being an RSE during doctoral studies. This transition usually happens slowly. You start programming a tool, someone else likes it, it becomes known that you can do those things and suddenly you are the programmer/RSE of the group that everyone would like to have in their projects. If you enjoy those things, you will need to know that something like an RSE career exists as well as the training materials. One place to generate awareness of the career option and training is universities doctoral onboarding process, or right therafter. RSE training could be offered as elective courses at universities organized by some central organization. RSE could be presented as a career path in suitable events. Since many RSE-minded people also at some point find their way to an HPC cluster, mailing lists of said clusters could be utiliuzed to advertise RSE courses. One important aspect to think about is also the wording in the advertisement. Potential future RSEs might not know the term yet or know that the course advertised includes topics that are of interest to them. If the university or organization has a github/lab organization/project, having a banner there might reach the right people. Most important is that people working in IT helpdesks know about the courses offered so that they can advise students / researchers on visiting the course/reviewing the materials if related questions are asked. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many current RSEs have found their way to being an RSE during their doctoral studies. This transition usually happens slowly. You start programming a tool, someone else likes it, it becomes known that you can do those things and suddenly you are the programmer/RSE of the group that everyone would like to have in their projects. If you enjoy those things, you will need to know that something like an RSE career path exists as well as specialized training materials. One place to generate awareness of the career option and training is universities' doctoral onboarding processes, or right therafter. RSE training could be offered as elective courses at universities organized by some central organization. RSE could be presented as a career path in suitable events. Since many RSE-minded people also at some point find their way to an HPC cluster, mailing lists of said clusters could be utilized to advertise RSE courses. One important aspect to think about is also the wording in the advertisement. Potential future RSEs might not know the term yet or know that the course advertised includes topics that are of interest to them. If the university or organization has a github/lab organization/project, having a banner there might reach the right people. Most important is that people working in IT helpdesks know about the courses offered so that they can advise students/researchers on visiting the course/reviewing the materials if related questions are asked. 
```

> For established RSEs it is important to be connected to other RSEs. This can happen via conferences, workshops or meetups. Also local/regional/national/international RSE organizations can be a great way to find likeminded people that can share information on interesting events or help each other out. A chat of such organzation can greatly benefit the RSE in finding help with issues outside their own comfort zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For established RSEs it is important to be a part of a network with other RSEs. A perfect first step for forming this network are topic related conferences, workshops or meetups.
Beyond that there is the broader RSE community organized at the local and regional level with chapters, at the national level with societies and the international RSE society. Each of them offers possibilities for connecting beyond their own university and are a great way to find like-minded people to grow a trans-regional network and thereby facilitate the sharing of information on interesting events or help each other out.
This available layered network can greatly benefit the RSE in finding help with issues outside their own comfort zone.
```
